**Warning**

This extension is *EXPERIMENTAL*. The behaviour of this extension
including the names of its functions and any other documentation
surrounding this extension may change without notice in a future release
of PHP. This extension should be used at your own risk.

Bcompiler was written for several reasons:

-   To encode entire script in a proprietary PHP application
-   To encode some classes and/or functions in a proprietary PHP
    application
-   To enable the production of php-gtk applications that could be used
    on client desktops, without the need for a php.exe.
-   To do the feasibility study for a PHP to C converter

The first of these goals is achieved using the <span
class="function">bcompiler\_write\_header</span>, <span
class="function">bcompiler\_write\_file</span> and <span
class="function">bcompiler\_write\_footer</span> functions. The bytecode
files can be written as either uncompressed or plain. To use the
generated bytecode, you can simply include it with include or require
statements.

The second of these goals is achieved using the <span
class="function">bcompiler\_write\_header</span>, <span
class="function">bcompiler\_write\_class</span>, <span
class="function">bcompiler\_write\_footer</span>, <span
class="function">bcompiler\_read</span>, and <span
class="function">bcompiler\_load</span> functions. The bytecode files
can be written as either uncompressed or plain. The <span
class="function">bcompiler\_load</span> reads a bzip compressed bytecode
file, which tends to be 1/3 of the size of the original file.

To create EXE type files, bcompiler has to be used with a modified sapi
file or a version of PHP which has been compiled as a shared library. In
this scenario, bcompiler reads the compressed bytecode from the end of
the exe file.

bcompiler can improve performance by about 30% when used with
uncompressed bytecodes only. But keep in mind that uncompressed bytecode
can be up to 5 times larger than the original source code. Using
bytecode compression can save your space, but decompression requires
much more time than parsing a source. bcompiler also does not do any
bytecode optimization, this could be added in the future...

In terms of code protection, it is safe to say that it would be
impossible to recreate the exact source code that it was built from, and
without the accompanying source code comments. It would effectively be
useless to use the bcompiler bytecodes to recreate and modify a class.
However it is possible to retrieve data from a bcompiled bytecode file -
so don't put your private passwords or anything in it.
