cairo\_create
=============

Returns a new CairoContext object on the requested surface

### Description

<span class="type">CairoContext</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_create</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_create</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_font\_options\_create
============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoFontOptions</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_font\_options\_create</span> ( <span
class="methodparam">void</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

This function has no parameters.

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_font\_options\_create</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_font\_options\_equal
===========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">bool</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_font\_options\_equal</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoFontOptions</span>
`$options`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">CairoFontOptions</span> `$other`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`options`  
Description...

`other`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_font\_options\_equal</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_font\_options\_get\_antialias
====================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_font\_options\_get\_antialias</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoFontOptions</span>
`$options`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`options`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_font\_options\_get\_antialias</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_font\_options\_get\_hint\_metrics
========================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_font\_options\_get\_hint\_metrics</span> (
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoFontOptions</span>
`$options`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`options`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_font\_options\_get\_hint\_metrics</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_font\_options\_get\_hint\_style
======================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_font\_options\_get\_hint\_style</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoFontOptions</span>
`$options`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`options`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_font\_options\_get\_hint\_style</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_font\_options\_get\_subpixel\_order
==========================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_font\_options\_get\_subpixel\_order</span> (
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoFontOptions</span>
`$options`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`options`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_font\_options\_get\_subpixel\_order</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_font\_options\_hash
==========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_font\_options\_hash</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoFontOptions</span>
`$options`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`options`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_font\_options\_hash</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_font\_options\_merge
===========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_font\_options\_merge</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoFontOptions</span>
`$options`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">CairoFontOptions</span> `$other`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`options`  
Description...

`other`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_font\_options\_merge</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_font\_options\_set\_antialias
====================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_font\_options\_set\_antialias</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoFontOptions</span>
`$options`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">int</span> `$antialias`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`options`  
Description...

`antialias`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_font\_options\_set\_antialias</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_font\_options\_set\_hint\_metrics
========================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_font\_options\_set\_hint\_metrics</span> (
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoFontOptions</span>
`$options`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">int</span> `$hint_metrics`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`options`  
Description...

`hint_metrics`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_font\_options\_set\_hint\_metrics</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_font\_options\_set\_hint\_style
======================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_font\_options\_set\_hint\_style</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoFontOptions</span>
`$options`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">int</span> `$hint_style`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`options`  
Description...

`hint_style`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_font\_options\_set\_hint\_style</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_font\_options\_set\_subpixel\_order
==========================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_font\_options\_set\_subpixel\_order</span> (
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoFontOptions</span>
`$options`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">int</span> `$subpixel_order`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`options`  
Description...

`subpixel_order`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_font\_options\_set\_subpixel\_order</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_font\_options\_status
============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_font\_options\_status</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoFontOptions</span>
`$options`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`options`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_font\_options\_status</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_format\_stride\_for\_width
=================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_format\_stride\_for\_width</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">int</span> `$format`</span> ,
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">int</span> `$width`</span>
)

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`format`  
Description...

`width`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_format\_stride\_for\_width</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_image\_surface\_create\_for\_data
========================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoImageSurface</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_image\_surface\_create\_for\_data</span> (
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">string</span>
`$data`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span class="type">int</span>
`$format`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">int</span> `$width`</span> , <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">int</span> `$height`</span> \[,
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">int</span> `$stride`<span
class="initializer"> = -1</span></span> \] )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`data`  
Description...

`format`  
Description...

`width`  
Description...

`height`  
Description...

`stride`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_image\_surface\_create\_for\_data</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_image\_surface\_create\_from\_png
========================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoImageSurface</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_image\_surface\_create\_from\_png</span> (
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">mixed</span> `$file`</span>
)

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`file`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_image\_surface\_create\_from\_png</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_image\_surface\_create
=============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoImageSurface</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_image\_surface\_create</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">int</span> `$format`</span> ,
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">int</span> `$width`</span>
, <span class="methodparam"><span class="type">int</span>
`$height`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`format`  
Description...

`width`  
Description...

`height`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_image\_surface\_create</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_data
================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">string</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_data</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoImageSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_data</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_format
==================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_format</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoImageSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_format</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_height
==================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_height</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoImageSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_height</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_stride
==================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_stride</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoImageSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_stride</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_width
=================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_width</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoImageSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_width</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_matrix\_create\_scale
============================

Alias of <span class="methodname">CairoMatrix::initScale</span>

### Description

This function is an alias of: <span
class="methodname">CairoMatrix::initScale</span>.

This function alias is deprecated and only exists for backwards
compatibility reasons. The use of this function is not recommended, as
it may be removed from PHP in the future.

cairo\_matrix\_create\_translate
================================

Alias of <span class="methodname">CairoMatrix::initTranslate</span>

### Description

This function is an alias of: <span
class="methodname">CairoMatrix::initTranslate</span>.

This function alias is deprecated and only exists for backwards
compatibility reasons. The use of this function is not recommended, as
it may be removed from PHP in the future.

cairo\_matrix\_invert
=====================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_matrix\_invert</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoMatrix</span>
`$matrix`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`matrix`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_matrix\_invert</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_matrix\_multiply
=======================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoMatrix</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_matrix\_multiply</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoMatrix</span>
`$matrix1`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">CairoMatrix</span> `$matrix2`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`matrix1`  
Description...

`matrix2`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_matrix\_multiply</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_matrix\_transform\_distance
==================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">array</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_matrix\_transform\_distance</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoMatrix</span>
`$matrix`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$dx`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$dy`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`matrix`  
Description...

`dx`  
Description...

`dy`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_matrix\_transform\_distance</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_matrix\_transform\_point
===============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">array</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_matrix\_transform\_point</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoMatrix</span>
`$matrix`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$dx`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$dy`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`matrix`  
Description...

`dx`  
Description...

`dy`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_matrix\_transform\_point</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_matrix\_translate
========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_matrix\_translate</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoMatrix</span>
`$matrix`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$tx`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$ty`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`matrix`  
Description...

`tx`  
Description...

`ty`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_matrix\_translate</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_add\_color\_stop\_rgb
=====================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_add\_color\_stop\_rgb</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoGradientPattern</span>
`$pattern`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$offset`</span> , <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$red`</span> ,
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span>
`$green`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$blue`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`pattern`  
Description...

`offset`  
Description...

`red`  
Description...

`green`  
Description...

`blue`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_pattern\_add\_color\_stop\_rgb</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_add\_color\_stop\_rgba
======================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_add\_color\_stop\_rgba</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoGradientPattern</span>
`$pattern`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$offset`</span> , <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$red`</span> ,
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span>
`$green`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$blue`</span> , <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$alpha`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`pattern`  
Description...

`offset`  
Description...

`red`  
Description...

`green`  
Description...

`blue`  
Description...

`alpha`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_pattern\_add\_color\_stop\_rgba</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_create\_for\_surface
====================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoPattern</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_create\_for\_surface</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_pattern\_create\_for\_surface</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_create\_linear
==============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoPattern</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_create\_linear</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$x0`</span> , <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$y0`</span> , <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$x1`</span> , <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$y1`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`x0`  
Description...

`y0`  
Description...

`x1`  
Description...

`y1`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_pattern\_create\_linear</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_create\_radial
==============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoPattern</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_create\_radial</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$x0`</span> , <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$y0`</span> , <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$r0`</span> , <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$x1`</span> , <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$y1`</span> , <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$r1`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`x0`  
Description...

`y0`  
Description...

`r0`  
Description...

`x1`  
Description...

`y1`  
Description...

`r1`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_pattern\_create\_radial</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_create\_rgb
===========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoPattern</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_create\_rgb</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$red`</span> ,
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span>
`$green`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$blue`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`red`  
Description...

`green`  
Description...

`blue`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_pattern\_create\_rgb</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_create\_rgba
============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoPattern</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_create\_rgba</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$red`</span> ,
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span>
`$green`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$blue`</span> , <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$alpha`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`red`  
Description...

`green`  
Description...

`blue`  
Description...

`alpha`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_pattern\_create\_rgba</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_get\_color\_stop\_count
=======================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_get\_color\_stop\_count</span> (
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoGradientPattern</span>
`$pattern`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`pattern`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_pattern\_get\_color\_stop\_count</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_get\_color\_stop\_rgba
======================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">array</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_get\_color\_stop\_rgba</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoGradientPattern</span>
`$pattern`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">int</span> `$index`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`pattern`  
Description...

`index`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_pattern\_get\_color\_stop\_rgba</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_get\_extend
===========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_get\_extend</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">string</span> `$pattern`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`pattern`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_pattern\_get\_extend</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_get\_filter
===========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_get\_filter</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurfacePattern</span>
`$pattern`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`pattern`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_pattern\_get\_filter</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_get\_linear\_points
===================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">array</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_get\_linear\_points</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoLinearGradient</span>
`$pattern`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`pattern`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_pattern\_get\_linear\_points</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_get\_matrix
===========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoMatrix</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_get\_matrix</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoPattern</span>
`$pattern`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`pattern`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_pattern\_get\_matrix</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_get\_radial\_circles
====================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">array</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_get\_radial\_circles</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoRadialGradient</span>
`$pattern`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`pattern`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_pattern\_get\_radial\_circles</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_get\_rgba
=========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">array</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_get\_rgba</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSolidPattern</span>
`$pattern`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`pattern`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_pattern\_get\_rgba</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_get\_surface
============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoSurface</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_get\_surface</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurfacePattern</span>
`$pattern`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`pattern`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_pattern\_get\_surface</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_get\_type
=========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_get\_type</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoPattern</span>
`$pattern`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`pattern`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_pattern\_get\_type</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_set\_extend
===========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_set\_extend</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">string</span> `$pattern`</span> ,
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">string</span>
`$extend`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`pattern`  
Description...

`extend`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_pattern\_set\_extend</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_set\_filter
===========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_set\_filter</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurfacePattern</span>
`$pattern`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">int</span> `$filter`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`pattern`  
Description...

`filter`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_pattern\_set\_filter</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_set\_matrix
===========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_set\_matrix</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoPattern</span>
`$pattern`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">CairoMatrix</span> `$matrix`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`pattern`  
Description...

`matrix`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_pattern\_set\_matrix</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pattern\_status
======================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pattern\_status</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoPattern</span>
`$pattern`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`pattern`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_pattern\_status</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pdf\_surface\_create
===========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoPdfSurface</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pdf\_surface\_create</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">string</span> `$file`</span> ,
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span>
`$width`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$height`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`file`  
Description...

`width`  
Description...

`height`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_pdf\_surface\_create</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_pdf\_surface\_set\_size
==============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_pdf\_surface\_set\_size</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoPdfSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$width`</span> , <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$height`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

`width`  
Description...

`height`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_pdf\_surface\_set\_size</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_ps\_get\_levels
======================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">array</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_ps\_get\_levels</span> ( <span
class="methodparam">void</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

This function has no parameters.

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_ps\_get\_levels</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_ps\_level\_to\_string
============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">string</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_ps\_level\_to\_string</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">int</span> `$level`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`level`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_ps\_level\_to\_string</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_ps\_surface\_create
==========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoPsSurface</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_ps\_surface\_create</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">string</span> `$file`</span> ,
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span>
`$width`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$height`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`file`  
Description...

`width`  
Description...

`height`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_ps\_surface\_create</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_ps\_surface\_dsc\_begin\_page\_setup
===========================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_ps\_surface\_dsc\_begin\_page\_setup</span> (
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoPsSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_ps\_surface\_dsc\_begin\_page\_setup</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_ps\_surface\_dsc\_begin\_setup
=====================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_ps\_surface\_dsc\_begin\_setup</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoPsSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_ps\_surface\_dsc\_begin\_setup</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_ps\_surface\_dsc\_comment
================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_ps\_surface\_dsc\_comment</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoPsSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">string</span> `$comment`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

`comment`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_ps\_surface\_dsc\_comment</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_ps\_surface\_get\_eps
============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">bool</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_ps\_surface\_get\_eps</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoPsSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_ps\_surface\_get\_eps</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_ps\_surface\_restrict\_to\_level
=======================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_ps\_surface\_restrict\_to\_level</span> (
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoPsSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">int</span> `$level`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

`level`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_ps\_surface\_restrict\_to\_level</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_ps\_surface\_set\_eps
============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_ps\_surface\_set\_eps</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoPsSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">bool</span> `$level`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

`level`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_ps\_surface\_set\_eps</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_ps\_surface\_set\_size
=============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_ps\_surface\_set\_size</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoPsSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$width`</span> , <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$height`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

`width`  
Description...

`height`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_ps\_surface\_set\_size</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_scaled\_font\_create
===========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoScaledFont</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_scaled\_font\_create</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoFontFace</span>
`$fontface`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">CairoMatrix</span> `$matrix`</span> , <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoMatrix</span> `$ctm`</span>
, <span class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoFontOptions</span>
`$fontoptions`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`fontface`  
Description...

`matrix`  
Description...

`ctm`  
Description...

`fontoptions`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_scaled\_font\_create</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_scaled\_font\_extents
============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">array</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_scaled\_font\_extents</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoScaledFont</span>
`$scaledfont`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`scaledfont`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_scaled\_font\_extents</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_ctm
=============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoMatrix</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_ctm</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoScaledFont</span>
`$scaledfont`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`scaledfont`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_ctm</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_font\_face
====================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoFontFace</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_font\_face</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoScaledFont</span>
`$scaledfont`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`scaledfont`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_font\_face</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_font\_matrix
======================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoFontOptions</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_font\_matrix</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoScaledFont</span>
`$scaledfont`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`scaledfont`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_font\_matrix</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_font\_options
=======================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoFontOptions</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_font\_options</span> (
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoScaledFont</span>
`$scaledfont`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`scaledfont`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_font\_options</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_scale\_matrix
=======================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoMatrix</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_scale\_matrix</span> (
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoScaledFont</span>
`$scaledfont`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`scaledfont`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_scale\_matrix</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_type
==============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_type</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoScaledFont</span>
`$scaledfont`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`scaledfont`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_type</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_scaled\_font\_glyph\_extents
===================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">array</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_scaled\_font\_glyph\_extents</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoScaledFont</span>
`$scaledfont`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">array</span> `$glyphs`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`scaledfont`  
Description...

`glyphs`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_scaled\_font\_glyph\_extents</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_scaled\_font\_status
===========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_scaled\_font\_status</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoScaledFont</span>
`$scaledfont`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`scaledfont`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_scaled\_font\_status</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_scaled\_font\_text\_extents
==================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">array</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_scaled\_font\_text\_extents</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoScaledFont</span>
`$scaledfont`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">string</span> `$text`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`scaledfont`  
Description...

`text`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_scaled\_font\_text\_extents</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_surface\_copy\_page
==========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_surface\_copy\_page</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_surface\_copy\_page</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_surface\_create\_similar
===============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoSurface</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_surface\_create\_similar</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">int</span> `$content`</span> , <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$width`</span> ,
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span>
`$height`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

`content`  
Description...

`width`  
Description...

`height`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_surface\_create\_similar</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_surface\_finish
======================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_surface\_finish</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_surface\_finish</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_surface\_flush
=====================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_surface\_flush</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_surface\_flush</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_surface\_get\_content
============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_surface\_get\_content</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_surface\_get\_content</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_surface\_get\_device\_offset
===================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">array</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_surface\_get\_device\_offset</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_surface\_get\_device\_offset</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_surface\_get\_font\_options
==================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoFontOptions</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_surface\_get\_font\_options</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_surface\_get\_font\_options</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_surface\_get\_type
=========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_surface\_get\_type</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_surface\_get\_type</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_surface\_mark\_dirty\_rectangle
======================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_surface\_mark\_dirty\_rectangle</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$x`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$y`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$width`</span> , <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span> `$height`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

`x`  
Description...

`y`  
Description...

`width`  
Description...

`height`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_surface\_mark\_dirty\_rectangle</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_surface\_mark\_dirty
===========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_surface\_mark\_dirty</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_surface\_mark\_dirty</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_surface\_set\_device\_offset
===================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_surface\_set\_device\_offset</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$x`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$y`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

`x`  
Description...

`y`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_surface\_set\_device\_offset</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_surface\_set\_fallback\_resolution
=========================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_surface\_set\_fallback\_resolution</span> (
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$x`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$y`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

`x`  
Description...

`y`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_surface\_set\_fallback\_resolution</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_surface\_show\_page
==========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_surface\_show\_page</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_surface\_show\_page</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_surface\_status
======================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">int</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_surface\_status</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_surface\_status</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_surface\_write\_to\_png
==============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_surface\_write\_to\_png</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">resource</span> `$stream`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

`stream`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_surface\_write\_to\_png</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_svg\_surface\_create
===========================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">CairoSvgSurface</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_svg\_surface\_create</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">string</span> `$file`</span> ,
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">float</span>
`$width`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">float</span> `$height`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`file`  
Description...

`width`  
Description...

`height`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span class="function">cairo\_svg\_surface\_create</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_svg\_surface\_restrict\_to\_version
==========================================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">void</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_svg\_surface\_restrict\_to\_version</span> (
<span class="methodparam"><span class="type">CairoSvgSurface</span>
`$surface`</span> , <span class="methodparam"><span
class="type">int</span> `$version`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`surface`  
Description...

`version`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_svg\_surface\_restrict\_to\_version</span>
example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

cairo\_svg\_version\_to\_string
===============================

Description

### Description

<span class="type">string</span> <span
class="methodname">cairo\_svg\_version\_to\_string</span> ( <span
class="methodparam"><span class="type">int</span> `$version`</span> )

The function description goes here.

**Warning**

This function is currently not documented; only its argument list is
available.

### Parameters

`version`  
Description...

### Return Values

What is returned on success and failure

### Errors/Exceptions

When does this function issue E\_\* level errors, and/or throw
exceptions.

### Examples

**Example \#1 <span
class="function">cairo\_svg\_version\_to\_string</span> example**

Any text that describes the purpose of the example, or what goes on in
the example should be here.

``` php
<?php

/* ... */

?>
```

The above example will output something similar to:

    ...

### See Also

-   <span class="function">related function name here</span>

**Table of Contents**

-   [cairo\_create](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_create) — Returns a new
    CairoContext object on the requested surface
-   [cairo\_font\_options\_create](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_font_options_create)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_font\_options\_equal](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_font_options_equal)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_font\_options\_get\_antialias](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_font_options_get_antialias)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_font\_options\_get\_hint\_metrics](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_font_options_get_hint_metrics)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_font\_options\_get\_hint\_style](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_font_options_get_hint_style)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_font\_options\_get\_subpixel\_order](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_font_options_get_subpixel_order)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_font\_options\_hash](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_font_options_hash)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_font\_options\_merge](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_font_options_merge)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_font\_options\_set\_antialias](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_font_options_set_antialias)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_font\_options\_set\_hint\_metrics](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_font_options_set_hint_metrics)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_font\_options\_set\_hint\_style](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_font_options_set_hint_style)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_font\_options\_set\_subpixel\_order](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_font_options_set_subpixel_order)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_font\_options\_status](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_font_options_status)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_format\_stride\_for\_width](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_format_stride_for_width)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_image\_surface\_create\_for\_data](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_image_surface_create_for_data)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_image\_surface\_create\_from\_png](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_image_surface_create_from_png)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_image\_surface\_create](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_image_surface_create)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_data](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_image_surface_get_data)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_format](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_image_surface_get_format)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_height](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_image_surface_get_height)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_stride](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_image_surface_get_stride)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_image\_surface\_get\_width](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_image_surface_get_width)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_matrix\_create\_scale](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_matrix_create_scale)
    — Alias of CairoMatrix::initScale
-   [cairo\_matrix\_create\_translate](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_matrix_create_translate)
    — Alias of CairoMatrix::initTranslate
-   [cairo\_matrix\_invert](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_matrix_invert) —
    Description
-   [cairo\_matrix\_multiply](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_matrix_multiply) —
    Description
-   [cairo\_matrix\_transform\_distance](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_matrix_transform_distance)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_matrix\_transform\_point](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_matrix_transform_point)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_matrix\_translate](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_matrix_translate) —
    Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_add\_color\_stop\_rgb](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_add_color_stop_rgb)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_add\_color\_stop\_rgba](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_add_color_stop_rgba)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_create\_for\_surface](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_create_for_surface)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_create\_linear](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_create_linear)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_create\_radial](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_create_radial)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_create\_rgb](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_create_rgb)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_create\_rgba](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_create_rgba)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_get\_color\_stop\_count](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_get_color_stop_count)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_get\_color\_stop\_rgba](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_get_color_stop_rgba)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_get\_extend](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_get_extend)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_get\_filter](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_get_filter)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_get\_linear\_points](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_get_linear_points)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_get\_matrix](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_get_matrix)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_get\_radial\_circles](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_get_radial_circles)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_get\_rgba](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_get_rgba)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_get\_surface](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_get_surface)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_get\_type](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_get_type)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_set\_extend](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_set_extend)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_set\_filter](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_set_filter)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_set\_matrix](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_set_matrix)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pattern\_status](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pattern_status) —
    Description
-   [cairo\_pdf\_surface\_create](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pdf_surface_create)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_pdf\_surface\_set\_size](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_pdf_surface_set_size)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_ps\_get\_levels](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_ps_get_levels) —
    Description
-   [cairo\_ps\_level\_to\_string](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_ps_level_to_string)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_ps\_surface\_create](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_ps_surface_create)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_ps\_surface\_dsc\_begin\_page\_setup](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_ps_surface_dsc_begin_page_setup)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_ps\_surface\_dsc\_begin\_setup](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_ps_surface_dsc_begin_setup)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_ps\_surface\_dsc\_comment](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_ps_surface_dsc_comment)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_ps\_surface\_get\_eps](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_ps_surface_get_eps)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_ps\_surface\_restrict\_to\_level](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_ps_surface_restrict_to_level)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_ps\_surface\_set\_eps](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_ps_surface_set_eps)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_ps\_surface\_set\_size](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_ps_surface_set_size)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_scaled\_font\_create](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_scaled_font_create)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_scaled\_font\_extents](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_scaled_font_extents)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_ctm](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_scaled_font_get_ctm)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_font\_face](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_scaled_font_get_font_face)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_font\_matrix](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_scaled_font_get_font_matrix)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_font\_options](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_scaled_font_get_font_options)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_scale\_matrix](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_scaled_font_get_scale_matrix)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_scaled\_font\_get\_type](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_scaled_font_get_type)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_scaled\_font\_glyph\_extents](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_scaled_font_glyph_extents)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_scaled\_font\_status](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_scaled_font_status)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_scaled\_font\_text\_extents](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_scaled_font_text_extents)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_surface\_copy\_page](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_surface_copy_page)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_surface\_create\_similar](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_surface_create_similar)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_surface\_finish](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_surface_finish) —
    Description
-   [cairo\_surface\_flush](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_surface_flush) —
    Description
-   [cairo\_surface\_get\_content](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_surface_get_content)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_surface\_get\_device\_offset](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_surface_get_device_offset)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_surface\_get\_font\_options](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_surface_get_font_options)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_surface\_get\_type](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_surface_get_type)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_surface\_mark\_dirty\_rectangle](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_surface_mark_dirty_rectangle)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_surface\_mark\_dirty](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_surface_mark_dirty)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_surface\_set\_device\_offset](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_surface_set_device_offset)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_surface\_set\_fallback\_resolution](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_surface_set_fallback_resolution)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_surface\_show\_page](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_surface_show_page)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_surface\_status](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_surface_status) —
    Description
-   [cairo\_surface\_write\_to\_png](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_surface_write_to_png)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_svg\_surface\_create](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_svg_surface_create)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_svg\_surface\_restrict\_to\_version](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_svg_surface_restrict_to_version)
    — Description
-   [cairo\_svg\_version\_to\_string](/ref/cairo.html#cairo_svg_version_to_string)
    — Description
