PHP versions documented in this manual
--------------------------------------

The manual contains information about past, current, and future versions
of PHP. Changes in behaviour are documented as notes, changelogs, and
inline text within the manual pages. The earliest documented version is
PHP 5.0.0.

When documentation exists for the latest (unreleased) developmental
versions of PHP, it will be labeled as either "available in Git" or
"development version." And while these changes should be planned for, in
rare cases they may change.

All development takes place in Git and may be checked out as described
within the
<a href="https://www.php.net/git.php" class="link external">» anonymous Git access</a>
page.

And to clarify, the manual will refer to major, minor and point PHP
releases. Using PHP *5.3.1* as an example, the *5* refers to the major
version, *3* to minor, and *1* is the point release. Typically PHP only
adds new features to major and minor releases, and fixes bugs in point
releases. However, this convention is not always true.

Also note that the PHP manual is written in present tense, not future
tense, even for documented features that are not yet available. The
reason for this is so the manual can stand the test of time, thus not
require tedious grammar updates with every PHP release.

Many times the PHP manual lists "Default Values" for PHP directives.
These values are based on how PHP behaves without a `php.ini`
configuration file, so this may differ from values found in the
distributed `php.ini-development` and `php.ini-production` files. They
also refer to the latest version of PHP, although changelog entries do
mention past values. See the
<a href="/ini/list.html" class="link">PHP directive appendix</a> for
details regarding these values and changes.
