Preparation and Housekeeping
----------------------------

### Source directory layout

The source directory for a typical PDO driver is laid out as follows,
where *SKEL* represents a shortened form of the name of the database
that the driver is going to connect to. Even though SKEL is presented
here in uppercase (for clarity), the convention is to use lowercase
characters.

    pdo_SKEL/          
      config.m4                  # unix build script
      config.w32                 # win32 build script
      CREDITS
      package.xml                # meta information about the package
      pdo_SKEL.c                 # standard PHP extension glue
      php_pdo_SKEL.h
      php_pdo_SKEL_int.h         # driver private header
      SKEL_dbh.c                 # contains the implementation of the PDO driver interface
      SKEL_stmt.c                # contains the implementation of the PDO statement interface
      tests/

The contents of these files are defined later in this document.

### Creating a skeleton

The easiest way to get started is to use the **ext\_skel** shell script
found in the PHP build tree in the `ext` directory. This will build a
skeleton directory containing a lot of the files listed above. It can be
build by executing the following command from within the `ext`
directory:

    ./ext_skel --extname=pdo_SKEL

This will generate a directory called pdo\_SKEL containing the skeleton
files that you can then modify. This directory should then be moved out
of the php extension directory. PDO is a PECL extension and should not
be included in the standard extension directory. As long as you have PHP
and PDO installed, you should be able to build from any directory.

### Standard Includes

#### Build Specific Headers

The header file config.h is generated by the configure process for the
platform for the which the driver is being built. If this header is
present, the HAVE\_CONFIG\_H compiler variable is set. This variable
should be tested for and if set, the file config.h should be included in
the compilation unit.

#### PHP Headers

The following standard public php headers should be included in each
source module:

1.  php.h

2.  php\_ini.h

3.  ext/standard/info.h

#### PDO Interface Headers

The following standard public PDO header files are also included in each
source module:

pdo/php\_pdo.h  
This header file contains definitions of the initialization and shutdown
functions in the main driver as well as definitions of global PDO
variables.

pdo/php\_pdo\_driver.h  
This header contains the types and API contracts that are used to write
a PDO driver. It also contains method signature for calling back into
the PDO layer and registering/unregistering your driver with PDO. Most
importantly, this header file contains the type definitions for PDO
database handles and statements. The two main structures a driver has to
deal with, pdo\_dbh\_t and pdo\_stmt\_t, are described in more detail in
Appendix A and B.

#### Driver Specific Headers

The typical PDO driver has two header files that are specific to the
database implementation. This does not preclude the use of more
depending on the implementation. The following two headers are, by
convention, standard:

php\_pdo\_SKEL.h  
This header file is virtually an exact duplicate in functionality and
content of the previously defined pdo/php\_pdo.h that has been
specifically tailored for your database. If your driver requires the use
of global variables they should be defined using the
ZEND\_BEGIN\_MODULE\_GLOBALS and ZEND\_END\_MODULE\_GLOBALS macros.
Macros are then used to access these variables. This macro is usually
named PDO\_SKEL\_G(v) where v is global variable to be accessed. Consult
the Zend programmer documentation for more information.

php\_pdo\_SKEL\_int.h  
This header file typically contains type definitions and function
declarations specific to the driver implementation. It also should
contain the db specific definitions of a pdo\_SKEL\_handle and
pdo\_SKEL\_stmt structures. These are the names of the private data
structures that are then referenced by the driver\_data members of the
handle and statement structures.

#### Optional Headers

Depending on the implementation details for a particular driver it may
be necessary to include the following header:

``` c
#include <zend_exceptions.h>
```
